---
title: "Lameureax and Zhou (1996)"
date: 2020-11-12T22:22:55-08:00
author: "Cameron Pfiffer"
categories: []
tags: []
draft: true
---

{{% marginnote "lugano" %}}Certainly there are lots of great _theoretical_ finance papers that use some form of Bayesian analysis. 
I might even agrue that it's quite common! [Bayesian games](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_game) are ways of analyzing
lots of different scenarios. Bayesian updating is practically a requirement any time you expose your agents
to some kind of signal. These wonderful papers and applications are not the point of this post, however.{{% /marginnote %}}

There aren't really that many great empirical Bayesian finance papers. I've talked about why I think this is 
[a little bit]({{< ref "2020-03-26-bayes-econ" >}}), but I think it ultimately comes down to the fact
that finance has never _needed_ good Bayesian empirics. We always have too much data! 

The big data fields of finance like market microstructure can easily have terabytes of data
to grind through. Corporate finance can have gigabytes, easily, both due to wide and long data. 
Asset pricing is similar in data size, though often it is due to a large panel that is funamentally narrow.

To top it off, most of our models of financial markets are too complex to permit closed-form solutions
for Bayesian frameworks -- normally you'd have to devolve into numerical solutions, which doesn't seem to
be that common. I can only speculate as to why. Perhaps finance academics don't have the skillsets,
because Bayesian stuff can only be learned by pledging your first-born to the Great Posterior in the Sky,
or maybe it's because there are always other "good enough" ways of estimating some parameter set. Who knows?

The few papers that 1) do some kind of Bayesian estimation and 2) are published in top journals
are lovely to read. My favorite such paper is
[Lamoureux and Zhou (1996)](https://academic.oup.com/rfs/article-abstract/9/4/1033/1579494).

Lamoureux and Zhou (1996) is the best kind of paper, in that it had the potential to lay an entire
strand of literature to rest. I'm speaking of course of the discussion that followed in the wake of
[Fama and French (1988)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0304405X88900207), which claims
that there is are two components of stock returns: a permanent random walk component, and a 
temporary, mean-reverting component. 

Fama and French (1988) suggests that there is a temporary component that dissapates after 3-5 years, which
suggests that returns are predictable! If, for example, you knew the parameters of the mean-reverting component, 
you could sell when the temporary part is high, knowing that it will eventually revert back to normal.
This is kind of a kooky thought if you've got any kind of finance training -- knowing where returns are
going to go with any certainty feels like a violation of efficient markets.

In fact, lots of papers came out of the woodworks to challenge Fama and French on their assertions
for a litany of very good reasons. One good example is [Boudoukh et al. (2008)](https://academic.oup.com/rfs/article/21/4/1577/1565342), 
which notes that the Fama French (1988) results would obtain as a function of using
"persistant regressors".

My favorite paper, Lamoureux and Zhou, has a much more elegant solution than that. Just estimate it, and see
whether the model posterior supports the existence of a temporary component!

