---
title: "2020 Wrap-up"
date: 2020-12-25T22:06:48-08:00
author: "Cameron Pfiffer"
categories: []
tags: []
draft: false
---

I like to try to write a year-end summary. I missed 2019 last year for various reasons,
but this year feels like an especially important year.

It's no secret that this year was more or less utter garbage. COVID-19 is the largest
contributor by far, but there have been other issues:

- My home state of Oregon suffered the most devastating fire season 
  [in recorded history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2020_Oregon_wildfires).
- The (continued) police killings of people. Lots of people.
- Systematic mismanagement of institutions that really need to be managed well. 
I'm looking at you, US government.
- The loud and stupid in my country are getting louder and stupider.
- Nobody gives a shit about truth or facts or objectivity, which sucks.
- Donald.

Among many others.

But for me, this year was perhaps the worst I have experienced in my brief 27 years of life.
Certainly there were high points, drowned as they were in stress, but they were too few
and too short to offset the generalized shittiness of the year.

First and worst, I am getting a divorce after 7 years of marriage. I don't want to talk too
much about the details because they are nobody's business but my wife and I, but
it is an important life change that I need people to know about. I married 
young (20), so everyone who has met me knows me as a married man. It is a large part 
of my identity and I have been having difficulty in the past few months with trying to 
replace that part of me with something else.

I just want some folks to know so that I don't have explain why I don't seem to have 
any dogs anymore, or why I'm in a new apartment, or where anything is. It's a big change.

Second, I have been struggling with depression, which is more or less new to me in any kind of
significant way. I was fortunate enough to be free from depression and other
mental disorders -- so fortunate I thought it due to my strength of will (like a jackass). 
Of course that is not true, however. Depression goes where it may and you have to deal
with it when it shows up. I am indeed dealing with it, but it is a slow process made slower 
by COVID-19.

{{% marginnote "dep" %}}
Lots of people who have not lived with some kind of mental disorder like anxiety or 
depression are often mistaken that it's that person's fault. It's not. Get over yourself.
Humans are not weird-ass science robots who control their feelings. There's lots of complex
stuff happening that you don't know jack-shit about. Don't be a dick if someone says they are
depressed or anxious. Just help.
{{% /marginnote%}}

Both of these two things have been the defining themes of my life for the year. Not only
have I lost a cornerstone of my identity, but I also lack the motivation to find a new 
one. Nearly everything I do has suffered, from my academic research to my work on Turing,
to various other projects that I tend to pick up here and there.

I'm okay though, before anyone is too worried. It's been an awful year. Sometimes
those happen. You just work through them and hope to come out on the other side a little dinged
but still beautiful and proud.

Here's hoping to a path upwards and onwards. Here's to hoping for a better year, a better me,
a better you, a better government, a better world. Here's to a better tomorrow.
